apps/diversifi/README.md, before:

# DiversiFi - Inflation Protection Through Stablecoin Diversification

DiversiFi is a MiniPay-compatible application that helps users protect their savings from inflation by diversifying their stablecoin portfolio across different geographical regions.

## Features

- **Inflation Protection**: Protect your savings from local currency inflation by diversifying across regions
- **Portfolio Visualization**: View your stablecoin holdings across different regions with intuitive visualizations
- **Personalized Recommendations**: Get tailored portfolio recommendations based on your home region
- **Real-World Use Cases**: See concrete examples of how stablecoin diversification helps in everyday life
- **Stablecoin Swaps**: Easily swap between different regional stablecoins to optimize your portfolio
- **MiniPay Integration**: Seamless integration with MiniPay wallet
- **Mobile-First Design**: Optimized for mobile devices

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- pnpm

### Installation

```bash
# Install dependencies
pnpm install

# Start the development server
pnpm dev
```

### Environment Variables

Create a `.env.local` file with the following variables:

```
NEXT_PUBLIC_CELO_RPC=https://forno.celo.org
NEXT_PUBLIC_WALLETCONNECT_PROJECT_ID=your_walletconnect_project_id
NEXT_PUBLIC_COINGECKO_API_KEY=your_coingecko_api_key
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=http://localhost:3001
```

## Testing with MiniPay

To test your app with MiniPay:

1. Start your development server:

   ```
   pnpm dev -p 3003  # Use any available port
   ```

2. Use ngrok to expose your local server:

   ```
   ngrok http 3003  # Use the same port as your dev server
   ```

3. Open the MiniPay app on your Android device:
   - Go to Settings
   - Tap the version number repeatedly to enable developer mode
   - Go back to Settings and select "Developer Settings"
   - Enable "Developer Mode" and toggle "Use Testnet" if you want to use the Alfajores testnet
   - Tap "Load Test Page"
   - Enter your ngrok URL: `https://xxxx-xx-xx-xx-xxx.ngrok-free.app/diversifi`
   - Click "Go" to launch your app in MiniPay

## MiniPay Integration Learnings

### Key Requirements for MiniPay Compatibility

1. **Headers Configuration**:

   - Set `X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN` instead of `DENY` to allow embedding in MiniPay
   - Add `Content-Security-Policy: frame-ancestors 'self' *.minipay.app *.celo.org *.opera.com;`

2. **Meta Tags**:

   ```html
   <meta
     name="viewport"
     content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=no"
   />
   <meta name="mobile-web-app-capable" content="yes" />
   <meta name="apple-mobile-web-app-capable" content="yes" />
   <meta
     name="apple-mobile-web-app-status-bar-style"
     content="black-translucent"
   />
   ```

3. **Wallet Connection**:

   - Use the basic `window.ethereum.request({ method: "eth_requestAccounts" })` approach
   - Auto-connect when MiniPay is detected: `window.ethereum.isMiniPay === true`
   - Add a small delay (e.g., 500ms) before checking for MiniPay to ensure everything is loaded
   - Hide connect button when in MiniPay environment

4. **Chain Configuration**:

   - MiniPay only supports Celo and Celo Alfajores Testnet
   - Chain IDs: 42220 (Celo Mainnet), 44787 (Celo Alfajores Testnet)

5. **Transaction Requirements**:

   - MiniPay uses Custom Fee Abstraction based transactions
   - Support the `feeCurrency` property when sending transactions
   - Only accept legacy transactions (not EIP-1559)

6. **UI/UX Considerations**:
   - Mobile-first design with simple, clean UI
   - Avoid heavy animations or complex interactions
   - Use tabs for navigation on small screens
   - Ensure all interactive elements are large enough for touch

### Debugging MiniPay Integration

1. **Environment Detection**:

   ```javascript
   const isMiniPay = window.ethereum && window.ethereum.isMiniPay === true;
   const isInIframe = window !== window.parent;
   const userAgent = navigator.userAgent;
   const referrer = document.referrer || "None";
   ```

2. **Console Logging**:

   - Log detection results to console: `console.log('MiniPay detection:', { isMiniPay, userAgent, isInIframe, referrer });`
   - Log connection results: `console.log('Connected to wallet:', { address, chainId });`

3. **Visual Indicators**:

   - Show MiniPay badge when detected
   - Display connection status clearly
   - Show chain ID and network name

4. **Testing Approach**:
   - Start with simple static HTML files to verify basic functionality
   - Test wallet connection separately from app functionality
   - Create a dedicated debug page with detailed environment information

## Project Structure

The DiversiFi app follows a modular architecture for better maintainability:

```
/apps/diversifi/
├── components/           # UI components
│   ├── tabs/             # Tab-specific components
│   │   ├── OverviewTab.tsx
│   │   ├── ProtectionTab.tsx
│   │   ├── AnalyticsTab.tsx
│   │   ├── StrategiesTab.tsx
│   │   ├── SwapTab.tsx
│   │   └── InfoTab.tsx
│   └── ...               # Other shared components
├── constants/            # Application constants
│   └── regions.ts        # Region and token data
├── hooks/                # Custom React hooks
│   ├── wallet/           # Wallet-related hooks
│   │   └── use-wallet-connection.ts
│   ├── use-diversification.ts
│   ├── use-inflation-data.ts
│   └── ...               # Other domain-specific hooks
├── pages/                # Next.js pages
│   ├── _app.tsx          # App wrapper
│   ├── diversifi.tsx     # Main application page
│   └── index.tsx         # Redirect to main app
├── utils/                # Utility functions
│   ├── api-services.ts   # API integration
│   ├── environment.ts    # Environment detection
│   └── mento-utils.ts    # Mento protocol utilities
└── types/                # TypeScript type definitions
```

## Project Progress

### Completed

- ✅ Basic project setup with Next.js and Tailwind CSS
- ✅ MiniPay compatibility implementation
- ✅ Wallet connection with auto-detection for MiniPay
- ✅ Mobile-friendly UI with tabbed interface
- ✅ Environment detection and debugging tools
- ✅ Chain ID detection and display
- ✅ Balance checking functionality
- ✅ Stablecoin portfolio visualization
- ✅ Inflation protection information and education
- ✅ Portfolio optimization recommendations
- ✅ Real-world use cases showcase
- ✅ Regional distribution visualization
- ✅ Swap interface implementation
- ✅ User region detection based on IP and locale
- ✅ Live stablecoin balance fetching with caching
- ✅ Historical performance tracking
- ✅ Portfolio analytics with diversification metrics
- ✅ Region-specific recommendations
- ✅ Code refactoring for better maintainability
- ✅ Component modularization with tab-based architecture

### In Progress

- 🔄 Improved mobile experience with touch-friendly interactions
- 🔄 Performance optimizations for low-end devices
- 🔄 Monorepo structure optimization

### Recently Completed

- ✅ Integration with Mento protocol for live stablecoin data
- ✅ Stablecoin swap transaction execution with the Mento broker
- ✅ Real-time exchange rate calculations
- ✅ Slippage tolerance controls for swaps
- ✅ Transaction status tracking and error handling
- ✅ Real-time inflation data integration with World Bank API
- ✅ Currency performance visualization showing value of $1 over time
- ✅ Enhanced swap interface with inflation impact information
- ✅ Alpha Vantage API integration for real currency exchange rates
- ✅ Comprehensive API services with caching and error handling
- ✅ Visual indicators for live vs. cached data

### Upcoming

- 📅 Transaction history tracking
- 📅 Offline support
- 📅 Multi-language support
- 📅 Push notifications for portfolio alerts
- 📅 Social sharing of portfolio performance

## Differentiation Strategy

DiversiFi stands out from similar applications by focusing on:

1. **Practical Inflation Protection**: Instead of abstract diversification metrics, we emphasize concrete benefits like "protect your savings from local currency inflation" with real examples and data.

2. **Simplicity First**: The app is extremely simple to use with clear, actionable steps rather than complex metrics.

3. **Educational Component**: We include simple, visual explanations of how local inflation affects purchasing power and how stablecoin diversification helps.

4. **Personalized Recommendations**: We provide tailored suggestions based on the user's country/region rather than generic diversification advice.

5. **Real-World Use Cases**: We show specific scenarios where diversification helps (e.g., "If you had diversified your portfolio this way last year, here's how much purchasing power you would have preserved").

## Mento Protocol Integration

DiversiFi leverages the Mento Protocol to enable seamless swaps between different regional stablecoins. The integration includes:

### Exchange Rate Discovery

- Real-time exchange rate calculations using the Mento broker
- Caching system to reduce API calls and improve performance
- Fallback rates for reliability when the network is unavailable

### Swap Execution

- Direct integration with the Mento broker contract
- Automatic token approval process
- Slippage tolerance controls to protect users from price movements
- Transaction status tracking with clear user feedback
- Error handling with user-friendly messages

### Supported Stablecoins

- **cUSD** (Celo Dollar) - USA region
- **cEUR** (Celo Euro) - Europe region
- **cREAL** (Celo Brazilian Real) - LatAm region
- **cKES** (Celo Kenyan Shilling) - Africa region
- **cCOP** (Celo Colombian Peso) - LatAm region
- **PUSO** (Philippine Peso) - Asia region
- **cGHS** (Celo Ghana Cedi) - Africa region
- **eXOF** (CFA Franc) - Africa region

## Built With

- Next.js
- React
- Tailwind CSS
- Chart.js
- viem/wagmi
- Mento Protocol
- ethers.js

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

mento mini pay integration ready + live in production

apps/diversifi/README.md, after:

# DiversiFi - Inflation Protection Through Stablecoin Diversification

DiversiFi is a MiniPay-compatible application that helps users protect their savings from inflation by diversifying their stablecoin portfolio across different geographical regions.

## Features

- **Inflation Protection**: Protect your savings from local currency inflation by diversifying across regions
- **Portfolio Visualization**: View your stablecoin holdings across different regions with intuitive visualizations
- **Personalized Recommendations**: Get tailored portfolio recommendations based on your home region
- **Real-World Use Cases**: See concrete examples of how stablecoin diversification helps in everyday life
- **Stablecoin Swaps**: Easily swap between different regional stablecoins to optimize your portfolio
- **MiniPay Integration**: Seamless integration with MiniPay wallet
- **Mobile-First Design**: Optimized for mobile devices

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- pnpm

### Installation

```bash
# Install dependencies
pnpm install

# Start the development server
pnpm dev
```

### Environment Variables

Create a `.env.local` file with the following variables:

```
# Celo RPC URL
NEXT_PUBLIC_CELO_RPC=https://forno.celo.org

# Wallet Connect Project ID
NEXT_PUBLIC_WALLETCONNECT_PROJECT_ID=your_walletconnect_project_id

# CoinGecko API Key (for token prices)
NEXT_PUBLIC_COINGECKO_API_KEY=your_coingecko_api_key

# App URL
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=http://localhost:3001

# Alpha Vantage API Key (for currency data)
NEXT_PUBLIC_ALPHA_VANTAGE_API_KEY=your_alpha_vantage_api_key
```

> **Important for Production**: When deploying to Netlify or other hosting platforms, make sure to set these environment variables in your hosting platform's dashboard or configuration files. For Netlify specifically, these can be set in the `netlify.toml` file or in the Netlify dashboard under "Site settings" > "Build & deploy" > "Environment".

## Testing with MiniPay

To test your app with MiniPay:

1. Start your development server:

   ```
   pnpm dev -p 3003  # Use any available port
   ```

2. Use ngrok to expose your local server:

   ```
   ngrok http 3003  # Use the same port as your dev server
   ```

3. Open the MiniPay app on your Android device:
   - Go to Settings
   - Tap the version number repeatedly to enable developer mode
   - Go back to Settings and select "Developer Settings"
   - Enable "Developer Mode" and toggle "Use Testnet" if you want to use the Alfajores testnet
   - Tap "Load Test Page"
   - Enter your ngrok URL: `https://xxxx-xx-xx-xx-xxx.ngrok-free.app/diversifi`
   - Click "Go" to launch your app in MiniPay

## MiniPay Integration Learnings

### Key Requirements for MiniPay Compatibility

1. **Headers Configuration**:

   - Set `X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN` instead of `DENY` to allow embedding in MiniPay
   - Add `Content-Security-Policy: frame-ancestors 'self' *.minipay.app *.celo.org *.opera.com;`

2. **Meta Tags**:

   ```html
   <meta
     name="viewport"
     content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=no"
   />
   <meta name="mobile-web-app-capable" content="yes" />
   <meta name="apple-mobile-web-app-capable" content="yes" />
   <meta
     name="apple-mobile-web-app-status-bar-style"
     content="black-translucent"
   />
   ```

3. **Wallet Connection**:

   - Use the basic `window.ethereum.request({ method: "eth_requestAccounts" })` approach
   - Auto-connect when MiniPay is detected: `window.ethereum.isMiniPay === true`
   - Add a small delay (e.g., 500ms) before checking for MiniPay to ensure everything is loaded
   - Hide connect button when in MiniPay environment

4. **Chain Configuration**:

   - MiniPay only supports Celo and Celo Alfajores Testnet
   - Chain IDs: 42220 (Celo Mainnet), 44787 (Celo Alfajores Testnet)

5. **Transaction Requirements**:

   - MiniPay uses Custom Fee Abstraction based transactions
   - Support the `feeCurrency` property when sending transactions
   - Only accept legacy transactions (not EIP-1559)

6. **UI/UX Considerations**:
   - Mobile-first design with simple, clean UI
   - Avoid heavy animations or complex interactions
   - Use tabs for navigation on small screens
   - Ensure all interactive elements are large enough for touch

### Debugging MiniPay Integration

1. **Environment Detection**:

   ```javascript
   const isMiniPay = window.ethereum && window.ethereum.isMiniPay === true;
   const isInIframe = window !== window.parent;
   const userAgent = navigator.userAgent;
   const referrer = document.referrer || "None";
   ```

2. **Console Logging**:

   - Log detection results to console: `console.log('MiniPay detection:', { isMiniPay, userAgent, isInIframe, referrer });`
   - Log connection results: `console.log('Connected to wallet:', { address, chainId });`

3. **Visual Indicators**:

   - Show MiniPay badge when detected
   - Display connection status clearly
   - Show chain ID and network name

4. **Testing Approach**:
   - Start with simple static HTML files to verify basic functionality
   - Test wallet connection separately from app functionality
   - Create a dedicated debug page with detailed environment information

## Project Structure

The DiversiFi app follows a modular architecture for better maintainability:

```
/apps/diversifi/
├── components/           # UI components
│   ├── tabs/             # Tab-specific components
│   │   ├── OverviewTab.tsx
│   │   ├── ProtectionTab.tsx
│   │   ├── AnalyticsTab.tsx
│   │   ├── StrategiesTab.tsx
│   │   ├── SwapTab.tsx
│   │   └── InfoTab.tsx
│   └── ...               # Other shared components
├── constants/            # Application constants
│   └── regions.ts        # Region and token data
├── hooks/                # Custom React hooks
│   ├── wallet/           # Wallet-related hooks
│   │   └── use-wallet-connection.ts
│   ├── use-diversification.ts
│   ├── use-inflation-data.ts
│   └── ...               # Other domain-specific hooks
├── pages/                # Next.js pages
│   ├── _app.tsx          # App wrapper
│   ├── diversifi.tsx     # Main application page
│   └── index.tsx         # Redirect to main app
├── utils/                # Utility functions
│   ├── api-services.ts   # API integration
│   ├── environment.ts    # Environment detection
│   └── mento-utils.ts    # Mento protocol utilities
└── types/                # TypeScript type definitions
```

## Project Progress

### Completed

- ✅ Basic project setup with Next.js and Tailwind CSS
- ✅ MiniPay compatibility implementation
- ✅ Wallet connection with auto-detection for MiniPay
- ✅ Mobile-friendly UI with tabbed interface
- ✅ Environment detection and debugging tools
- ✅ Chain ID detection and display
- ✅ Balance checking functionality
- ✅ Stablecoin portfolio visualization
- ✅ Inflation protection information and education
- ✅ Portfolio optimization recommendations
- ✅ Real-world use cases showcase
- ✅ Regional distribution visualization
- ✅ Swap interface implementation
- ✅ User region detection based on IP and locale
- ✅ Live stablecoin balance fetching with caching
- ✅ Historical performance tracking
- ✅ Portfolio analytics with diversification metrics
- ✅ Region-specific recommendations
- ✅ Code refactoring for better maintainability
- ✅ Component modularization with tab-based architecture

### In Progress

- 🔄 Improved mobile experience with touch-friendly interactions
- 🔄 Performance optimizations for low-end devices
- 🔄 Monorepo structure optimization

### Recently Completed

- ✅ Integration with Mento protocol for live stablecoin data
- ✅ Stablecoin swap transaction execution with the Mento broker
- ✅ Real-time exchange rate calculations
- ✅ Slippage tolerance controls for swaps
- ✅ Transaction status tracking and error handling
- ✅ Real-time inflation data integration with World Bank API
- ✅ Currency performance visualization showing value of $1 over time
- ✅ Enhanced swap interface with inflation impact information
- ✅ Alpha Vantage API integration for real currency exchange rates
- ✅ Comprehensive API services with caching and error handling
- ✅ Visual indicators for live vs. cached data

### Upcoming

- 📅 Transaction history tracking
- 📅 Offline support
- 📅 Multi-language support
- 📅 Push notifications for portfolio alerts
- 📅 Social sharing of portfolio performance

## Differentiation Strategy

DiversiFi stands out from similar applications by focusing on:

1. **Practical Inflation Protection**: Instead of abstract diversification metrics, we emphasize concrete benefits like "protect your savings from local currency inflation" with real examples and data.

2. **Simplicity First**: The app is extremely simple to use with clear, actionable steps rather than complex metrics.

3. **Educational Component**: We include simple, visual explanations of how local inflation affects purchasing power and how stablecoin diversification helps.

4. **Personalized Recommendations**: We provide tailored suggestions based on the user's country/region rather than generic diversification advice.

5. **Real-World Use Cases**: We show specific scenarios where diversification helps (e.g., "If you had diversified your portfolio this way last year, here's how much purchasing power you would have preserved").

## Mento Protocol Integration

DiversiFi leverages the Mento Protocol to enable seamless swaps between different regional stablecoins. The integration includes:

### Exchange Rate Discovery

- Real-time exchange rate calculations using the Mento broker
- Caching system to reduce API calls and improve performance
- Fallback rates for reliability when the network is unavailable

### Swap Execution

- Direct integration with the Mento broker contract
- Automatic token approval process
- Slippage tolerance controls to protect users from price movements
- Transaction status tracking with clear user feedback
- Error handling with user-friendly messages

### Supported Stablecoins

- **cUSD** (Celo Dollar) - USA region
- **cEUR** (Celo Euro) - Europe region
- **cREAL** (Celo Brazilian Real) - LatAm region
- **cKES** (Celo Kenyan Shilling) - Africa region
- **cCOP** (Celo Colombian Peso) - LatAm region
- **PUSO** (Philippine Peso) - Asia region
- **cGHS** (Celo Ghana Cedi) - Africa region
- **eXOF** (CFA Franc) - Africa region

## Built With

- Next.js
- React
- Tailwind CSS
- Chart.js
- viem/wagmi
- Mento Protocol
- ethers.js

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
